Welcome to another challenge.
And this one, we're going to refactor our code because if you have a quick look at the controller,
we barely added any features and it's already looking really messy.
This means our code is not scalable because if we were to add even more features, it would just look
really, really bad.
So we need to refactor our code base.
First thing we're going to do is create a repository layer, place the data store there and as well
as every single crud operation.
So I will create a new file called Store Repo Java.
Store repository dot java.
All right.
And inside of this class, I'm going to move the data store.
Make it private so that it's only invisible here.
Import the list and import the array list.
Sweet.
And now the next thing we need to do is move every crud operation that's in the controller to the repository.
So here we're retrieving an object at a particular index.
This represents the r and crud.
So here, what we need to do is define an operation that grabs an item at a particular index.
It's going to return items.
Get the item at the following index.
We'll leave this error for now.
Here, we're creating an item and adding it to our data store.
This represents the C in CRUD so we can go back to store repo and say public void add item.
And we can say items add.
And we will add the item being passed in.
Okay.
And here we're also retrieving an object at a particular index.
We already have a method for that here.
We're updating an object at a particular index.
This represents the you in crud.
So here we'll say public void update item and we're going to update an item at a particular index.
And here we can just say items dot set.
Item.
So this grabs every single element inside of the ArrayList.
We can go ahead.
And just say public, I will return the list of items.
Get items.
And it's just going to return the array list.
Now you might be wondering what the heck's the point of making this private if we're just going to return
all of it anyways?
You have to realize that in real life you're not using an ArrayList to store your data.
So even though we're returning a reference to the items array list.
You have to realize that in real life you're not going to be using an array list to store your data.
You'll be using an actual data store.
So while this method here is returning a reference that points to the entire array list in real life,
what this method would be doing is actually querying the data from our database.
So let's not put too much thought into it, except for the fact that we're refactoring our code base
so that all CRUD operations are made here.
All right.
Here.
We're grabbing an item at a particular index and that's it.
I think now we're ready to move on to task, to place all business and decision making logic inside
the service layer.
And it's the layer that handles the business logic which should be making calls to the repo.
We will start with bullet point number two, because we already have all these errors that we can resolve
by starting off with creating a new service Java file.
And the store service is going to act as the middleman between the controller and the repository, because
it's the layer that handles the business logic that should be making calls to the repo in the first
place.
So the easiest way to do this is to just copy the following.
And paste them over here.
And now here.
Create a new object of a store repo.
New store repository.
And here I can say return store repo dot get item.
Store repo.
Ad item.
Story Podcast Update item.
And store repo dot get items.
And now it can finally resolve these errors because the controller, instead of making its own CRUD
operations, it's going to call upon the service class to in turn make calls to the repo.
So here we'll actually have to create a new object of the store service, not the great service.
I keep getting those mixed up.
Here, I can say store service.
Dot get.
Story service dot ad.
Story Service dot update.
Um.
What's the error?
The parameters are mixed up.
Um.
Storage service get items.
Here to.
And here we get an item at a particular index.
Okay.
So this has been resolved.
The next thing we have to do is place all of the business and decision making logic inside the service
layer.
Okay, so we'll start from the top down.
So from first glance I can see get index from ID has business logic that does not belong here.
We can copy it over to store service.
Make the following changes.
Now we can safely remove this.
From the controller class within five days.
It should not be here.
It should be inside of store service.
Import the appropriate classes.
Not Java Util, not java SQL Java.
You tell be careful what you import.
Okay.
We're good here.
And now this.
Here is a decision making process that does not belong inside of handle submit inside.
What I'm going to do is delete it.
And I'm going to create a new function.
Public string handle submit.
It's going to return a string that represents the status of the submission, a value that's needed for
the flash attribute.
And.
The status starts off as success here.
It's updated.
We'll return status by the end of the operation.
Get index from ID item get ID.
Oh, it seems.
Now we're going to have to add an item here.
Okay.
Looking good.
And so now here we can just say store service, dot handle, submit, and we will get the status of
the submission.
Now, I'm not going to move this anywhere because either we could call a function that performs this
comparison or we can just do it directly.
In this case, I think it actually might be easier to just do it directly.
And here we're deciding which object to add to our model depending on whether the index was found or
not.
So what I'm going to do is go to store service and create a function that says.
Uh, well, create a function that returns an object based on an ID, so we'll say get item from ID.
It's going to receive a string ID, which is the ID parameter that's passed back from the get request.
And here we can say if the index.
Is not found.
Then we'll return a new item.
Otherwise, we'll return the item that was found.
And now back in store controller, we can just say model dot ad attributes.
Story service dot get index or no get.
Item from ID.
ID.
And just like that, we refactored our code and this is looking a lot better.
The only thing the controller is doing is managing the model and presenting the view.
The store service takes care of all the business logic, and it's the layer that handles the business
logic that should be making calls to the repo.
And it's the repo that performs the CRUD operations needed to create, read, update, or delete data
from the data store.
I'm just going to run the application to make sure that everything still works.
And we didn't miss anything.
Let's submit some data.
Looks good.
I'll update the item to have an order dates.
That's way beyond what it should be.
You fail to submit the item.
I will.
Make the date something more correct.
Looking good.
I will submit incorrect values to test out our annotations.
Looks good.
I will test out the cross field validation.
We'll say five bucks with a discount of ten.
Okay.
Everything still seems to be working well, and our code was refactored to look a lot better.